Recognizing individuals in crowded urban areas is a challenging due to the size of images capturing a large, crowded space, the variation in pose of faces, and the low resolution of many of the faces. The difficulty of this problem is further compounded by the fact that images are often too large to offload, so computation ideally has to be done in-situ, often on a mobile platform.

The authors of EagleEye approach this problem by first identifying everything that's probably a face in the image - a reasonably lightweight operation - and then sorting the faces into 2 categories: those which can be processed by a lighter-weight network and those which need heavier processing due to low image resolution or due to pose-related issues. As shown in figures 7 and 8, only a small number of pixels - the difficult to identify faces - are offloaded to the cloud for further processing. The authors further contribute a novel GAN technique for increasing the resolution of images that are to be fed into face recognition networks. Typical hyperresolution techniques are inappropriate for face detection because they may add incorrect details which are appealing to human viewers but would provide factually incorrect information.

Hot takes:
personal interest: 9/10
They have a clever way of reducing DNN power. Very interesting. Also major facism / privacy concerns.

paper quality / novelty: 8.5/10
This is an excellent paper with a very clever technique in my opinion. I'm mad that they don't have a discussion here about how these sorts of technological advances will enable authoritarian, fascist regimes and encourage AI misidentification that got Detroiter Robert Julian-Borchak Williams [falsely put in jail](https://www.npr.org/2020/06/24/882683463/the-computer-got-it-wrong-how-facial-recognition-led-to-a-false-arrest-in-michig).