Working off of the observation that SRAM data retention voltage is way below SRAM write voltage, the authors introduce circuitry external to the CPU which puts it in a sleep mode which undervolts the SRAM but keeps SRAM retention indefinitely. They implement this using COTS hardware by having an MSP430 undervolt its entire Vdd domain when in sleep mode which retains SRAM contents but results in less power consumption. I have some major concerns about this paper's evaluation of power consumption, but even putting switching regulators aside, undervolting the SRAM reduces current consumption.

In their low-power sleep mode the microcontroller is powered from "Vddl", a voltage low enough to retain SRAM contents but far to low to operate the microcontroller or to read / write the SRAM. An external active-high interrupt source activates a low-power latch circuit which switches the voltage supply from Vddl to Vdd, bringing the microcontroller to a brown-out reset with the SRAM contents previously available remaining.

Hot takes:
personal interest: 9/10  I think that there is a more generalized version of this research that can immediately be tested with COTS parts
paper quality / novelty: 5/10  Novel idea, they didn't take it very far. Furthermore, I think that there are some major issues with their eval section WRT power consumption measurement. Using a resistor divider for regulation on the SRAMs? Why? I can think of a few explanations for this power regime... but they don't talk about this unorthodox choice AFAICT and they don't describe their power calcs that carefully to account for losses in their "power regulation" circuit.
