## Blowing Magnetic Skyrmion Bubbles

For decades, magnetic domains have been used for data storage. In the most common applications (hard drives, MTJs), magnetic domains are stationary inside their substrate. However, some devices rely on the motion of small magnetic domains for storage (racetrack memory, bubble memory), or computation. When these domains look like bubbles inside the substrate, they’re called skyrmions. Because of topological properties of their domain walls, skyrmions act like particles; they can be moved via a current-induced STT. Skyrmions are promising for ultra low-power computation and data storage, but generating stable skyrmions remains a challenge. In this paper, the authors demonstrate a method for generating stable skyrmions in CoFeB by geometrically patterning it.

Skyrmions are “particles” of magnetization which are separated from the “substrate” that they reside in by a domain wall. Because a spin torque exerts a force on both the front and back walls of a skyrmion, current-generated spin torques can move skyrmions through their magnetic substrates. The authors take advantage of the dynamics of domain wall motion to generate skyrmions, in a way that’s reminiscent of “blowing bubbles”: when a long, stripe-like magnetic domain coincides with the spin-torque generated by a current with non-uniform direction, the walls of this domain can be distorted into a bubble shape. If the conditions are right, the “bubble” will break off of the stripe domain, making a skyrmion. The authors produce a current distribution which achieves this goal by constricting the current to a very thin wire which then opens up to a much wider wire. This difference in size generates a current pattern which causes skyrmions to form.

The authors test this mechanism by constructing a Ta / CoFeB / TaO trilayer. They pattern this trilayer such that it’s 60µm wide with a 3µm constriction in the middle, which generates the current pattern described above that “blows” skyrmions from a domain stripe. Because of their material choice, they are able to move the skyrmions with ~1000x less current than earlier works, which use STT instead of SOT. The authors bias their sample with a small magnetic field and drive varying currents through the tantalum layer. There’s a large current / bias field regime in which they observe skyrmion generation, shown in figure 2G. Moreover, they use a MOKE microscope to take pictures (and even videos) of the skyrmion generation process.

To better characterize the skyrmion motion, they compare the motion of skyrmions with magnetic bubbles that have different domain wall properties. Because of the symmetry of the skyrmion domain walls, an SOT applied evenly across the skyrmion moves both its “front” and “back” domain walls evenly. For other types of magnetic domain, this symmetry doesn’t exist, meaning that an applied spin torque won’t move the domain but instead will expand or shrink it. The authors characterize the motion of magnetic bubbles without the domain wall symmetries required for skyrmions. They show that these bubbles don’t move like the skyrmions generated by their structure do, and instead they just grow or shrink when a spin torque is applied.

This paper is really interesting and provides an excellent mechanism for generating skyrmions. They characterize their results well, and the videos they took look amazing. I’d like to see this work extended in a few directions:

1.  How can the magnetic stripes on the “left” side of their samples (like in figure 2B) be reliably generated? It seems like their method relies on these existing.
    
2.  How can the number of generated skyrmions be regulated? It seems to me like if you want to do useful computation in a classical paradigm, you need to get exactly N skyrmions when you ask for exactly N. Perhaps skyrmions could be used in stochastic computing without addressing this issue.


keywords: [[keywords/spintronics]]