Cooling datacenters has become a major part of their energy budget. This is typically done with a water circulation system which has a cooler in front of it cooling all of the water for the whole datacenter. Recently, however, a new strategy called "warm water cooling" is being explored, where CPUs are run at higher temperatures and water that is 35 or 40 celsius is used to cool the CPUs - anyways, from the point of view of a 90 celsius CPU, 15 degree water isn't that much different from 35 degree water. However, this poses an issue; if you want to run some of the CPUs in the datacenter near their full capacity (which is not the common case), they will overheat under warm-water cooling.

The authors propose a scheme where each CPU has a theromelectric cooler attached to it in addition to a warm-water cooling system. In the rare case that a CPU is operating at full tilt, the TEC (thermo-electric cooler) will kick in to assist the warm-water cooling system; this essentially allows for much finer-grained control of cooling across machines. Whereas cooling the water for the entire plant wastes energ cooling servers that don't need it, their fine grained approach can be more targeted. The conceptual simplicity of this approach is clearly illustrated in figure 5.  The authors also provide some example mechanical work showing how a TEC can be integrated together with a warm-water cooling system, and they simulate how well their approach would work on some workoads.

Hot takes:
personal interest: 2/10
paper quality / novelty: 5/10 (idk seems obvious. guess someone had to do it.)