## A 10.33 μJ per encryption Homomorphic Encryption Engine in 28nm CMOS with 4096-degree 109-bit Polynomials for Resource-Constrained IoT Clients
#### Siddharth Das*, McKenzie van der Hagen*, Swarali Patil, Cagri Erbagci, [[authors/Ken Mai]], [[authors/Brandon Lucia]], 2023
#### Summary
Homomorphic Encryption (HE) is an encryption method where computations can be performed on encrypted data without decrypting it; this is very attractive in situations where a user wants a third party to do computations on data that they don't want to disclose (e.g. a user sends their MRI images to a medical diagnostics company that sends back a "cancer" or "no cancer" diagnosis). When performing computations on HE-encrypted data, only a limited subset of arithmetic operations (e.g. integer multiply-add) can be supported without intractable computational overhead. One way around this is for the computation agent to send the partially-processed data back to the client and ask them to decrypt the data and perform some unsupported operations.
Edge data collection devices are an especially attractive target for HE, but the repeated encryption/decription is too much of a burden for low-power edge devices.
This work presents a HE encrypt/decrypt engine that requires only about 10uJ per operation. They achieve this mostly through impressive engineering effort, fabricating a pretty straightforward datapath implementation in 28nm CMOS. Compared to prior works, their system relies on fixed parameters to simplify the datapath and careful selection of RAM / ROM architectural choices to reduce memory accesses.
I'm confident that these authors will extend this work in an exciting and thoughtful direction. I'm excited to see a full system using this, say, an edge AI system that collects video data and analyses it without disclosing any user information!

#### Strengths
  - Meaningful, pragmatic step towards enabling HE, a compelling privacy-enabling technology
  - I always love seeing a fabricated chip in a work

#### Weaknesses
  - Discussion on how they beat other works is not clear. Was it just process scaling?
  - "We support 83% of encryption and 57% of decryption". Doesn't this make comparisons w previous work less apples-to-apples?

#### Additional comments
Interesting - they got their 28nm foundry access with help from Apple. Perhaps industry partners would be a good direction to look for this kind of work. "We would like to thank Apple's new silicon initiative for supporting this project through accessible academic tapeouts"

#### What potential directions of future work remain (if any)?
The obvious next step is integrating this accelerator with related work that shows an end-to-end application as a proof-of-concept.

#### Citations
 - papers/unfiled/Client-Optimized Algorithms and Acceleration for Encrypted Compute Offloading
   This work by some of the same authors discusses ways to actually use this accelerator for projects.

Keywords: [[embedded-systems]], [[keywords/edge-computing]], [[vlsi]], [[low-power]]
Tags:
[[june]]
