## A Perpendicular Anisotropy CoFeB-MgO Magnetic Tunnel Junction
#### [[authors/Hideo Ohno]], et. al, 2010
Early work in MTJs used MTJs that were magnetized in-plane. These were easier to work with because they are thermally stable and have a high TMR ratio. However, perpendicularly magnetized MTJs are of great interest because they are expected to have a much lower switching current (by up to 2 orders of magnitude) than in-plane MTJs. Integration density of in-plane MTJs is limited because such large drive transistors are required due to their high switching current. In order to achieve integration densities that are competitive with DRAM and flash memory, drive current will need to be reduced, allowing for smaller drive transistors. Switching from in-plane to perpendicularly magnetized MTJs is a solution to this problem.

In their abstract, the authors identify 3 conditions that need to be satisfied for perpendicularly magnetized MTJs to be viable memory devices:
They need to have a high enough energy barrier between their states so that they’re thermally stable (so that they’re nonvolatile)
They need to have a sufficiently low switching current (otherwise they’ll require large drive transistors (decreasing density) and require extra power)
They need to have a high TMR ratio (so that the P and AP states can be distinguished).
The authors claim that no perpendicular MTJs have yet satisfied all 3 of these conditions. 
 
In this work, the authors mainly focus on tackling issue 1. To do this, they leverage interfacial anisotropy between the CoFeB and the MgO to increase the energy barrier between the P and AP states. Earlier work used thicker CoFeB layers, which diminished the contribution of interfacial anisotropy to the effective fields acting on the free layer. Moreover, the inclusion of Pt in direct contact with the ferromagnetic transition metals may have reduced the interfacial anisotropy. The authors manufacture several CoFeB/MgO/CoFeB MTJs with varying CoFeB thickness with Ta/Ru/Ta contacts. The authors graph in plane and out of plane magnetization curves for CoFeB thicknesses of 2.0nm and 1.3nm (Figure 2). This shows that - for thicker CoFeB layers - the easy axis is in-plane. They also graph K * CoFeB thickness (K is the perpendicular-anisotropy energy) as a function of CoFeB thickness (Figure 2b inset). As t_CoFeB increases, the strength of the anisotropy term decreases, causing K’s sign to flip. The sign-change of K is indicative of an easy-axis change, which happens around t_CoFeB = 1.6nm.

After experimentally establishing that their t_CoFeB choice leads to a perpendicular easy axis, they demonstrate the functionality of their devices by switching them and measuring the resistance. To increase TMR ratio, they anneal their devices at different temperatures, finding that 350 Celsius provides the best TMR ratio (figure 4c).

In Figure 5, the authors demonstrate the functionality of these out-of-plane devices. Figure 5a shows the resistance in P and AP states, forced by an external field. Figure 5b shows hysteretic current-induced switching for current pulses of different length. Figure 5c graphs switching time as a function of current density, showing that, for a rather low current (50uA), their MTJs can be switched in ~300 microseconds.

The authors explain their anisotropic effects in a way that I was able to understand. In the abstract, the authors pose TMR ratio as a problem for perpendicular MTJs, but I found the discussion of how their MTJ construction achieves a good TMR ratio to be kind of unclear / lacking. I would’ve liked to see more on that.