Using stereo vision to make 3d models of scenes on commodity smartphones is promising for new mobile applications, however, COTS smartphones are limited in their depth perception because of their extremly small baseline distance, which is only a few centimeters. Stereo vision systems with a baseline of a few centimeters are fine for tracking nearby objects, but their error increases significantly for objects farther away. Hypersight is a system which synthetically constructs a longer baseline stereo camera from a COTS smartphone that is taking video as it's moved through space by a human. If a human slides the camera left-to-right by 50cm and the camera is taking video of a static scene, then you basically have a stereo camera image whose baseline has been synthetically boosted to 50cm.

The main challenge with this method is the fact that a human won't move the camera precisely the right distance at precisely the right angle. Hypersight uses the small baseline stereo system in COTS smartphones to accurately track the hand motion of the user by monitoring nearby objects. From this, it is able to accurately estimate the baseline of the synthetically wider stereo camera. There's a tradeoff between sliding length of the user's hand and accuracy of the final estimate. If the user doesn't slide the camera far, then the estimate of the camera's motion will be very accurate but the baseline will still be too small for distance objects; if the user slides the camera very far, the stereo baseline is better, but there is more opportunity for error to accrue.

Hypersight does extremely well running on a COTS smartphone. Surprisingly, for objects 5 or more meters away, Hypersight can outperform a fixed stereo camera with a modest baseline (figure 18), presumably because of its possiblity to have a much large baseline distance. Of course, Hypersight is limited by a requirement to have nearby objects and be looking at a static scene.

Hot takes:
personal interest: 5.5/10  (interest cause robotics; also maybe useful for Nabil type work; very power intensive though)
paper quality / novelty: 8/10 (takes well-studied techniques and combines them in a novel way to great effect)