Colleen is working with our lab on some soil sensing projects; she's here for a visit, so I decided to read some papers of hers.

## Wireless Computer Vision Using Commodity Radios
#### Colleen Josephson, Lei Yang, Pengyu Zhang, Sachin Katti, 2019

#### Summary
Wireless video streaming is desirable for a number of applications (security / surveillance (oh no), VR, environmental monitoring, etc), but because of video's high data rate, it usually requires a massive amount of energy to transmit frames. The authors develop a system which brings together many different techniques to drastically reduce the amount of power required for continuous operation in a traditional convert-compute-transmit wireless imaging system.

The authors optimize the following parts of the system:
 * The image sensor: the authors use an off-the-shelf solution with orders-of-magnitude lower power than other similar sensors.
 * The RF hardware (sections 3.2.1, 4.2.1): the authors use backscatter for both TX and RX on the camera board; the backscatter scheme uses packets generated by commodity WiFi hardware, where data bits are encoded in packet characteristics like packet length. On the camera, the authors implement the RX side with an envelope detector (LT5534) and implement the TX side with an FPGA and an RF switch.
 * The compression algorithm (section 3.2.3): the authors break the image into sub-blocks and monitor the variation of a sub-block, only transmitting sub-blocks whose pixel values change above a certain threshold; sub-block levels are captured periodically in FRAM. They organize the order-of-operations in this simple algorithm to make sure that FRAM writes are limited.
 * Adaptive framerate / resolution (section 3.1.3): The receiver (which is not energy-bound) uses an attention model (kind of like Microsoft's Glimpse) to command the camera to increase resolution when it thinks something interesting may be in the frame. In their example application, the camera is commanded to increase resolution when there may be a face, which increases power consumption briefly.

The system successfully transmits continuous 1fps video using 9.7mW when transmitting 164x122 images and 18.8mW when transmitting 326x244 images. When the system adaptively chooses between low- and high- res images, the average power consumption is 11.4mW. It uses entirely commodity hardware and outperforms similar systems, except possibly the "Towards HD" system, which uses some non-commodity hardware. I'm interested in seeing how a more sophisticated compression algorithm could advance this system, possibly aided by beyond-CMOS computing, e.g. MTJs.

#### Strengths
 * Actual hardware was built
 * System is built entirely from commodity hardware
 * System achieves state-of-the-art performance

#### Weaknesses
 * Lack of clarity about compression vs resolution in discussion

#### Additional comments
Because I'll be meeting Colleen in person soon, I'm interested in discussing a few things w her:
 * Working with the hm01b0:
   * How quickly can it be brought up from a cold start? How do you go about setting automatic exposure and 50/60Hz flicker cancellation settings at startup?
   * How did you get in touch with them about acquiring bare dies?
   * How do they achieve so much lower power? Do you know?
 * Compression techniques for the image: are there future directions she'd like to move in?
 * Some sort of compute-in-memory thing?
 * I have a future vision for 320x240 20-30FPS  image collection, compression, and storage in < 10mW. Thoughts?

#### Hot Takes
personal interest: 9/10\
paper quality / novelty: 8/10\
This paper takes a number of existing techniques and puts them together into a compelling system that works end-to-end. All of the implementation details are well-explained.


## FreeRider: Backscatter Communication Using Commodity Radios
#### Pengyu Zhang, Colleen Josephson, Dinesh Bharadia, Sachin Katti, 2017

#### Summary
Backscatter is a promising technique for drastically reducing the amount of power that radio nodes take. Unfortunately, backscatter usually necessitiates the use of dedicated hardware to generate the signals that are to be scattered. This hampers consumer adoption because extra hardware will need to be purchased or designed into products and because the extra signals pollute precious consumer RF bands. In previous work by the same authors - HitchHike - backscatter radios are excited by valid packets from commodity radios, and they communicate by transforming those packets into other valid packets through backscatter techniques. This work further extends HitchHike, adapting its techniques to operate with a broader class of commodity radios. They also introduce a method for receiving control information passively from commodity radios using a backscatter receiver that only requires COTS RF components.

The authors show that their system can TX information up to ~25 meters. They also show that - when using zigbee or bluetooth channels for communication - their system can operate at the same time as WiFi is operating. For their system to co-exist with WiFi, they need to use RTS/CTS flow control. As state above, their system uses only off-the-shelf components and critically does not require a WiFi decoder on the backscatter tag, which would require a prohibitive amount of power. This work is important because it has the potential to move backscatter radios from a lab curiosity to a practically useful real-world technique. I'm interested in seeing how this work can be extended to transmit more data to the tags as well instead of just data coming from the tags.

#### Strengths
 * Actual hardware was built
 * Hardware uses only COTS hardware
 * Open-sourced

#### Weaknesses
 * IDK, this is a pretty great paper

#### Hot Takes
Personal Interest: 8/10\
Paper quality / novelty: 8.5/10\


## RF Soil Moisture Sensing via Radar Backscatter Tags
#### COLLEEN JOSEPHSON, BRADLEY BARNHART, SACHIN KATTI, KEITH WINSTEIN, RANVEER CHANDRA (2019)

#### Summary
A lot of times, farms over- water their crops, which both reduces crop yield and takes unnecessary money. It's widely known that soil moisture sensors alleviate this issue, however, commodity soil moisture sensors are expensive, hard to deploy and maintain, and hard to collect data from. Using Time-Domain-Reflectometry, it's possible to determine soil moisture by looking at the ToF of a known signal launched into the ground; typically sensors in contact with the soil are used for this, but if there's a reflector at a known depth, the ToF can be measured by ground-penetrating radar (sections 2.{2,3}). Unfortunately, natural reflectors in soil are dense and randomly distributed, making it difficult to tell a known reflector apart from background noise (Section 3.2.1).

The authors' key insight is the use of a backscatter tag to overcome this "reflector discrimination" problem. They put backscatter tags in the ground which turn their antennas on and off in such a way that they appear to have a doppler shift. This allows the ground-penetrating radar to discriminate specific tags from the background and from each other. They also include an actively powered tag that can work at lower depths than the backscatter tag.

The system devised by the authors is an order of magnitude cheaper than other systems, but it still achieves roughly the same accuracy. Furthermore, because the tags are backscatter, they have an exceptionally long battery life, making deployment and maintenance easier. The authors outline interesting future directions in section 8; they suggest many improvements to a fundamentally useful system.

#### Strengths
 * Discussed in the paper; system is cheaper and easier to deploy/maintain than existing solutions while maintaining performance parity
 * Future work directions are interesting and strong
 * High impact

#### Weaknesses
 * Maybe it's addressed in the paper, but it seems like it will still be very time consuming to collect data from all the tags.

#### Additional Comments
The method is counter-intuitive. The backscatter tags don't actually do any measurement, they act as passive markers at a known reference point. This is described in the 3rd-to-last paragraph of section 1.

#### Hot Takes
personal interest: 6/10\
Cool technique, but the passivity of the tags and focus on UWB radar processing makes me a little less interested personally.\
Paper quality / novelty: 8/10\
