In 2000, power was becoming an increasingly important metric for microarchitectural performance, however, tools to measure power suffered from 2 main issues: they were prohibitively slow (ch 2.2.2: a state-of-the-art simulator took ~1 hour to run 100 test vectors through a 64-bit adder) and were useless at early stages of the design process because they required RTL to work.

The authors introduce Wattch, a power estimator that doesn't require RTL to work, but instead works by modelling the power consumed by well-studied architectural building blocks (content-addressable-memories, clock distribution networks, caches, etc). Of course, this will reduce the accuracy for any one processor, but makes it possible to test new ideas before RTL exists and quickly evaluate changes to compilers and architectures. If a novel architectural extension is to be tested, it can be statically analyzed and a power profile can be provided to Wattch.

The authors compare their model to numbers taken from Intel. They also run test applications and vary architectural parameters, showing different power consumption for different architecutral parameters on different cache sizes. I wish that they had been able to compare the derivative of power WRT architectural changes to ground truth... if Wattch is 100% accurate for a specific operating point but doesn't change power calcs correctly as architectural parameters change, then it's not very useful. If it systematically overestimates but changing cache from 16kB to 32kB causes a 4% power increase on a certain testcase for BOTH groundtruth AND Wattch, that's great.