Self-sustainable Sensing Systems with Inch-scale Wind Energy Harvesters in Automobiles

This paper is pretty weak all around, but sections 3.2 and 3.3 are novel research that actually moves the field forward (AFAICT) in a meaningful way.

Well, actually, there are a few papers that cover that ground as well, and they do it much better:
    * (Design and performance of a centimetre-scale shrouded wind turbine for energy harvesting)[https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/0964-1726/20/8/085021] These guys make a turbine about the size of a quarter that harvests ~5mW; this paper cites turbines in the ~10cm regime that can generate ~100mW at ~20mph.
    *

Section 4.1 is basically a 2-page long product eval for an Acconeer radar product (they never even specify which one) (oh wait nvm they do, but it's in fig 10, several pages away from the discussion).

Section 4.2 is closer to the briefness that should be given to the discussion of their test system, but they stop at the bare minimum; the raspberry pi lane detector is extremely basic, there are big parts of the design space that they aren't exploring. In the final sentence of section 5, they just say "gotta diode-or some more turbines together or make a bigger one if we want the lane assist to work at less than 80km/h". They didn't think about making a lane keep assist that takes less than 5 watts?? A couple ideas:

     * Discussion section: do you really NEED an rPi, or is there a lower-power system that would work? (4 iCE40s glued together with an ARM M4 would probably do just fine)
     * You're going at 12fps, why? At 60mph, you shouldn't need more than 3 or 4 fps, and at lower speeds even less. If the system is well-designed, power consumption should decrease as frame rate drops.

Section 6, the fuel consumption discussion, is important to include but is lacking. They don't discuss their simulation very much, and why didn't they just experimentally test? Did they ACTUALLY simulate a turbine, or did they just put some box shaped thing in there? They could have had a graph or a table instead of 3 paragraphs of text.



#### Contribution to IMWUT:

Please briefly summarize this submission's contribution to IMWUT. Think broadly and positively in terms of the types of contribution a paper can make.

The authors designed and implemented two proof-of-concept driver assistance systems that are powered by wind energy harvested from the motion of the car that they're mounted to.

The paper includes the design, fabrication, and characterization of two small wind turbine harvesters which measure 63mm and 92mm. Key harvester design parameters (e.g. number of blades, airfoil shape) were chosen using open-source simulation software and the harvesters were 3D printed. The authors provide graphs comparing the actual performance of the harvesters to the expected performance from simulation.

The paper also includes the implementation of two driver-assistance applications. The authors implement a blind-spot detection system using an off-the-shelf Acconeer XM122 radar module. Their system would alert the driver through unspecified means if there was a vehicle in their "blind spot". As part of this implementation, they performed experiments verifying that the Acconeer module worked as expected. The authors also implemented a lane departure warning system using a raspberry pi single-board computer running OpenCV based software. Each of the systems included a battery for buffering unused power.

The authors demonstrated that the systems worked effectively enough to be used by drivers as long as the car was moving fast enough to generate sufficient energy.

#### Impact:
Please rate the impact level of this work. Consider factors such as:
  * whether it is an addition to an already well-covered research area or whether it breaks new ground
    it's a hasty (in my opinion) mashing together of two rather well-covered areas to show that they can be mashed together, something that's not really surprising
  * is this paper likely to have lots of citations
    I don't think so.
  * the likelihood that this paper influences or predicts future academic or industrial innovation
    I don't think so. The idea is good, and it's cool to see working proofs-of-concept, but this isn't an exceptional systems engineering efforts and doesn't have novelty - it combines existing novel research and does so at the bare minimum.

 (x) Low impact
 ( ) Medium impact
 ( ) Significant impact
 ( ) Very significant impact
 ( ) Groundbreaking work!

#### Review
Please provide your review of the paper. Make sure to highlight its strengths and weaknesses. Please comment on whether the length of the paper is commensurate to its contribution.

Contributions: It's very exciting to see working end-to-end ADAS systems powered by intermittent computing, especially ones that work well well enough to be useful in many feasible driving scenarios. I can imagine systems like these being sold as after-market products for easily adding ADAS features to older cars. It's encouraging to see the modest impact on gas mileage from your simulations.

System implementation: The systems implemented do not represent an improvement on the state of the art. The work here takes several well-understood technologies and joins them together. While it is exciting to see a full system working end to end, the results presented here are underwhelming considering the state-of-the-art in wind turbine design and computer vision. I would expect a system that uses near-state-of-the-art harvesting, sensing, and inference technologies to be much smaller and operate on much less power.

Paper length: The paper is far too long. A lot of space is taken up with text that doesn't add much to the paper, while more interesting sections are too short or not well-explained. For instance, over two pages are used to discuss experimental product evaluation of an off-the-shelf radar module, and 1.5 pages are used to discuss basics of wind turbine design. These sections should be shortened and the reader referred to external literature. Meanwhile, there's little account given of emperical measurement of wind turbine power output; graphs are shown in figure 4, but important experimental details are never disclosed. Also, there's not much discussion of how these systems could be changed to operate at lower speeds.

#### Recommendation(s) to 1AE
Which of the options below would you recommend? You can select two options if you are OK with more than one decision.
 ( ) Acceptable with minor (or no) changes
 ( ) Major revisions (enumerated in a subsequent field) are required for this to be publishable
 (x) Reject

#### Major / Minor Revisions
Minor revisions:
  * Section 3.2: Correct typos in airfoil names. "S384" and "NACA6341" aren't airfoil names; "S834" and "NACA 63421" are. This causes confusion.

Major revisions:
  * Section 3.1: Reduce the length of section 3.1, reference other work when possible.
  * Section 3.2: A lot of the text is redundant with figure 2 and doesn't need to be included.
  * Section 3.2: More figures showing simulation results for different harvester diameters would be enlightening.
  * Section 3.2: Basically no information is given regarding how emperical data in figure 2 was collected. Experimental procedure should be discussed.
  * Section 4.1.3: Summarize the data discussed in 4.1.3 in a table.
  * Section 4.1.3: Shorten section 4.1.3; it's a product evaluation for an existing COTS component and doesn't belong in a research paper.
  * Section 4.2.1: The description of the lane-detection pipeline is too brief. If it's a novel contribution from the authors, it should be described in more detail. If it isn't, then that should be mentioned at the start of the section and section 4.2 should be shortened.
  * Section 4.2.1: No attempts are made to lower the massive power consumption of the LDWS. This would improve the paper and add novelty. The authors can perhaps dynamically change framerate depending on driving speed to achieve this. Ideally, they would use a lower-power platform.
  * Section 5: This section doesn't satisfactorily address concerns about the ADAS systems failing at low speeds. The authors could discuss lowering system performance at low speeds to save power, energy buffering strategies, or state of the art systems with lower power consumption that are inaccessbile to researchers (e.g. MIT's Eyeriss or China and EFPL's ShiDianNao).
  * Section 6: Discussion of drag coefficient calculation is insufficient. When the authors say "By calculating the drag coefficient and frontal area of a vehicle and vehicle with an energy harvester," are they taking into account the fact the the harvester's blades will be turning? This will affect drag differently than a rigid, stationary block. The phrasing in this sentence makes me think that they haven't considered that. If that hasn't been considered then simulations should be re-run. If it has been considered, then writing should be made clearer.
  * Section 6: Is there a reason gas mileage was tested in simulation and not empirically?
  * Section 6: A table or graph should be used instead of describing numerical data in-line with the text.

Even with these revisions, the paper does not show sufficient novelty for acceptance.
